So, the phrase gamechanging is overused.
I like to reserve it for those special
drops, and I'm going to roll it out
today. You can see on GitHub, this
repository is only 3 days old, and it's
already shot up to 16,000 [music]
stars. It gives AI agents full access to
your entire Google workspace. Both
beautiful and incredibly dangerous at
the same time. Let me show you what this
is, what the opportunity is, and how to
get it set up. So, essentially, what
you're getting here is one CLI to rule
them all. Your Google Workspace CLI
gives you access to Gmail, Drive,
Calendar, Docs, Sheets, Chat, Admin,
Google Keep, everything that's under the
Google Workspace stack. If you're new to
this and not sure what a CLI is, it's an
interface that is textbased, so it's
perfect for AI agents to use and
discover quickly. It gives them all the
tools they need to carry out your
bidding. AI agents have gotten
incredibly powerful. The likes of Clawed
Code, Cursor, Open Claw, the capability
really is there. What's really been
missing is a clean foundation, a way to
give agents programmatic access to the
infrastructure most businesses run on.
Without that, it's been really difficult
to build AI operating systems you could
run or sell until now. So, in a
nutshell, we have our agent that could
be Claw Code, OpenClaw, Gemini CLI,
whatever you want. All of the above work
in code. It's what they love and they
love CLIs and it's also got an MCP
server. MCP historically has taken up a
lot of token usage, but there are some
scenarios where this is going to prove a
good choice. So, here's why this matters
for builders. You can use this to build
out full AI operating systems for your
business. I'm talking about a
self-driving businesses, companies as
code, or you can offer this as an agency
service for others. Build templates and
deploy systems in any niche. So, this is
the Google stack, but how you work with
it is absolutely super open. You can use
whatever agent you like, whether that's
Open Claw, Claude Code, Cursor, Gemini
CLI, even any agent you might build out
yourself. Is such a big brain move from
Google. They can't officially endorse
agent access to email, Docs, Sheets,
Drive. It's a total liability. But they
do know where this is going. OpenClaw
has proved huge demand for unfettered
access to your systems, your docs, and
everything else. So, what exactly do you
get with the GWS CLI and MCP? Well, in
terms of Gmail, it's not just about
reading your emails. You can draft them,
send them, search them, manage labels.
This is all stuff that the plugins don't
let you do. You can create files, edit
them, organize, share them, and delete
them. So, be careful with that. You can
create and edit docs, create and edit
sheets. It opens up the chat API so you
can post messages and read messages.
Imagine how powerful that will become.
And so much more. So, this is the kind
of sample automation that becomes
possible across this stack. This system
alone would save a ton of time, and it's
just one of hundreds of different
systems we can now automate. Think of
the value this will provide to your
business and to others. But even cooler
than this, Google has gone and pre-built
a load of agent skills with a lot of
different personas and a lot of
different types of common tasks that you
might carry out in your business just to
get you started. So, the idea of company
as code or a self-driving company is not
necessarily new. We've been talking
about it for probably the last two
years. the idea of having a database
layer or a data layer and having agents
work on top of that with workflows to
carry out every part of what you need
done for your business. But the thing is
it wasn't fully possible until recently.
The models have leveled up, harness
engineering is there and the tooling is
just about right. It's not like the
models are getting hugely better, but
the tooling and how they call tools and
all the infrastructure around it really
is just arriving right in time for this
moment. You can see on GitHub, this
repository is only 3 days old and it's
already shot up to 16,000 stars. So, we
have a few hoops to jump through here to
get started, but I guarantee you it will
be worth it. So, first of all, we're
going to copy this command here. And
this is going to install the workspace
CLI. So, open up your terminal on a Mac
or your PowerShell if you're in Windows
and run this command in the terminal.
You're going to need Node installed. So,
you can get that from NodeJS and install
that as well beforehand. Great. So,
that's the Workspace CLI installed, but
you're also going to need the Google
Cloud CLI that allows you to set up
projects and infrastructure, and this is
the tool that's used to connect the two
things together. So, you want to go to
the Google Cloud SDK and install the
Google Cloud CLI. Google provides a ton
of infrastructure for developers like
databases, cloud storage, lots more
stuff. And essentially, we're going to
use the CLI, which helps us interact
with that to set up some permissions so
we can actually operate the GWS CLI. So
depending on your type of machine,
you're going to install the following.
I've got a Mac OS, so I'm going to
download this one for Apple Silicon. So
once you've unzipped that file, you're
basically going to have a folder a bit
like this. Depending on whether you're
on a Windows or a Mac machine, you can
run either install.bat or install.sh. So
you make sure that you are in the right
folder here. So I'm in the Google Cloud
SDK folder here. And then you're going
to run this command if you're on a
Mac.installsh.
It says welcome to the Google Cloud CLI.
So you're going to let it modify your
profile to update your path. You're
going to say okay to edit your RC file.
Now I've got a lot of this stuff
installed already. It might try and
install Python 3 if you don't already
have that installed. I just go ahead and
let that do that. If you're having any
trouble with the installation, just ask
cursor or claw code. Give it a test
drive with G-Cloud in it. So, you'll be
asked to do some setup there. I'm just
going to reinitialize. I'm going to
choose the account that I want to use
for this configuration. In this case,
it's that email. This is the important
bit. You need to make sure you're using
the right Google Cloud project. I'm
going to say four. So, I'm going to call
this one selfdriving company 3. So now,
if I go back over here to switch
dimension up here for my project
selector, you should see it appear. Now,
this interface is a little bit quirky.
If you've used the CLI to set it up, it
might not appear straight away. You'll
have to refresh a little bit. Click on
this. Be patient. It takes a minute to
show up. So, now that we've got the
G-Cloud CLI set up, we can now run the
Google Workspace setup. So, we're just
going to drop this command in here. So,
firstly, it's saying it's found the
G-Cloud CLI because we just installed
that. Great. Now, we're going to do the
authentication. So, I've got my account
here set up. I'm going to hit enter.
We're going to select the project that
we want. So, I'm going to select
self-driving company 3. Now, we're going
to select what APIs we want to enable.
I'm going to go with all because I've
got a lockdown workspace here and we're
just experimenting. And I'm going to hit
return. So, it's enabling 22 APIs. So,
we need to manually step through this to
connect our account to the CLI. So,
we're just going to copy this URL here.
That takes us to the OT consent screen.
If you can't find your way there, you
can just go here, then API and services
and OAT consent screen. So, we're going
to click get started. Put in whatever
name you want, your support email. Then
we're going to make this external. Click
next. And then we're going to put in
whatever contact information you need.
For now, you just put in your own email.
That's fine. I agree the terms and
services. And then click create. So next
up, you need to create the OOTH client.
So we can just find that again here if
you can't find your way there. So now we
need to create our OOTH client. So I'm
just going to click on this. We select
our application type. We're just going
to drop in desktop app here. Leave that
name as it is if you want. And then
we're going to take our oath client here
and save that for later. So if you
haven't got a secret already, just make
sure that you add it in there. So just
click add secret. Again, it's here in
clients client for desktop and then we
can just paste this in here. So now
we're just going to run GWS al login.
And then it's going to give us all the
different scopes. So there is a ton of
scopes in here. I don't recommend
starting with them all enabled. It's way
too powerful. Let's just start with the
core consumer support. So, I'm just
going to enter confirm. It gives us this
authentication URL here. So, we're just
going to copy this and then paste it in
to our browser. On the previous screen,
I just picked whatever user and then I'm
going to click continue. You can see
here all the permissions that it's
giving. Back over to our CLI and you see
that everything looks like it succeeded.
So now we've got it installed. We want
to give it some extra powers and we're
going to do that through skills. So go
to skills.sh and if we type in if you
type in Google workspace you're going to
see all the various different skills
that you can install. So next question
is where do you install these skills? If
if you're using OpenClaw just get your
claw to install the skills. And of
course you will have to have had GWS set
up on whatever machine or VPS you're
running OpenClaw. In my case, I've built
my own AI operating system for my own
company and that's where I'm going to be
installing it. If you want to find out
more about how you might build out AI
operating systems, highly recommend
checking out the course and community.
I've got sections in there on clawed
code and over the coming weeks, I'm
going to be talking a lot more and
giving a lot more workshops on AI
operating systems. So, I've got my
folder where I want to install my
skills. That's where I want my agent to
be able to use them. Skills. If you've
never run before this, you're going to
need to install it. So, just hit MPX
skills. Hit return. The Google Workspace
comes with a ton of skills. You click on
this button here, and uh you'll find
them all listed here. There's a ton of
great stuff, including different helpers
and personas. So, I'm just going to add
them all at the one go. So, we're going
to run this command here. So, just going
to paste it in here, and it's going to
install these. We're going to decide on
what skills we want to install. If you
just click A, it's going to install all
of them. Might be overkilled for now,
but let's just see how we go. Here's all
the default ones it gets installed for.
And then you just need a slightly
different setup if you want uh
anti-gravity and claw code. And then
we're going to put it open claw here as
well. Now, do we want it globally or in
the project? I'm just going to go with
the project for now. I don't need all of
this globally. A ton of skills is just
going to confuse my agent. Agent, I like
to keep that nice and tidy. And I just
install skills in the projects that need
them. So, I'm going to hit return. So,
now for the fun part. Let's just run
Claude and let's try a few commands to
see how this works. So, let's try this.
Send an email to robsw
switchdimension.com and ask him if he
has got the project quote.
>> Your agent has finished.
>> Okay, it said it's sent an email. That
was really quick. It's about two
seconds. And then boom, there you go. It
actually created and sent the email. So
that's pretty cool. Going to say check
for last two emails. Cool. So my agent
saying good news, Rob got the quote and
replied. He's suggesting to meet Friday
at lunch. So I'm saying cool. Can you
put that in my calendar and add him as a
participant? You can also set the GWS
Gmail watch skill to watch your emails.
So if you want to run that kind of
command on a useful basis, there now is
a new loop command in clawed code. So
you can set it to run at a regular
basis, very much like what you can do in
OpenClaw. If you want to build alongside
me, if you want templates, code,
architecture decisions, how to build
apps with AI, how to masterclaw code,
that's all in the switchdimension
community at switchdimension.com. The
link is in the description. I would love
to know in the comments what kind of
things you're building. Is it for your
own business? Are you building apps,
prototypes? What are you building? What
are you planning to sell? Drop it in the
comments. I'm going to cover the best
ideas in upcoming videos. And if this
was useful at all, hit the like button
and subscribe just so it pops up in your
feed more often. You want this kind of
content in your feed, not a load of cat
videos. Going to see you in the next
one.